update: the CocoaPods-to-SwiftPM migration using Junie with the Kotlin AI skill (#700)
JetBrains/kotlin-multiplatform-dev-docs: topics/development/multiplatform-cocoapods-spm-migration-ai.md

[//]: # (title: Switch Kotlin Multiplatform project from CocoaPods to SwiftPM dependencies with Junie)
<primary-label ref="Experimental"/>

If you have a KMP module with CocoaPods dependencies and want to switch to Swift packages using [SwiftPM import](multiplatform-spm-import.md),
you can use AI to help you.
This guide shows how you can use Junie and Kotlin AI skills to make this process easier.

> > Although this guide uses Junie, you can use any AI tool with Kotlin AI skills to complete the process.

Reviewer: What about adding a link to our Kotlin AI skills page here?

> 
{style="tip"}

As with all AI tools, Junie can make mistakes.
If you prefer to migrate manually, see [Switch Kotlin Multiplatform project from CocoaPods to SwiftPM dependencies](multiplatform-cocoapods-spm-migration.md).

## Set up Junie CLI

In the terminal, install Junie CLI:

```bash
curl -fsSL https://junie.jetbrains.com/install.sh | bash
```

Start the Junie CLI for the first time to log in with your JetBrains account
or use an external LLM:

```bash
junie
```

> ![Junie CLI login prompt](cocoapods-spm-junie-login.png)

Reviewer: It's a bit big! Can you scale it smaller? :)

> 

Reviewer: Shall we add a note here that they can learn more about authentication options in the [Junie documentation](https://junie.jetbrains.com/docs/junie-cli.html#step-3-authenticate)? 🤔

In the terminal, navigate to your project directory and install the corresponding Kotlin AI skill:
<!-- Stable Junie CLI will support extensions soon https://junie.jetbrains.com/docs/junie-cli-extensions.html -->

```shell
npx skills add Kotlin/kotlin-agent-skills
```

> You need npm no older than 5.2.0 for this command to work.
> 
{style="note"}

In the dialog, select the `kotlin-tooling-cocoapods-spm-migration` skill and Junie as the agent to install it for.
When asked about the scope, select `Project` to limit the scope of the skill to your current project.

## Start the migration

Before you begin, make sure that your project is using VCS, for example, Git.
This is important so that you can review the changes from the initial state and after each iteration.

1. Open the terminal and navigate to your project directory.
2. Enter the following command to start Junie in interactive mode:

    ```shell
    junie
    ```

3. Enter the following prompt:

    ```text
    Migrate <project-name> from CocoaPods to SwiftPM
    ```
   
Junie recognizes that the skill you installed is appropriate for the task and starts the migration process.

## Review and test the changes

> Review all the changes made by Junie in the project git history. Use IntelliJ IDEA’s side-by-side viewer to easily see the differences.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Review all the changes made by Junie in the project git history. Use IntelliJ IDEA's side-by-side viewer to easily see the differences.
```

> Review all the changes made by Junie in the project git history. Use IntelliJ IDEA’s side-by-side viewer to easily see the differences.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Review all the changes made by Junie in the project git history. You can use IntelliJ IDEA’s side-by-side viewer to easily see the differences.
```
How about making this part softer? Since we don't really mention IntelliJ IDEA up to this point.

Author: That's right 😅
